Chapter 1
TYLER GETS ME a job as a waiter, after that Tyler's pushing a gun in my
mouth and saying, the first step to eternal life is you have to die. For a
long time though, Tyler and I were best friends. People are always asking,
did I know about Tyler Durden.
The barrel of the gun pressed against the back of my throat, Tyler says
"We really won't die."
With my tongue I can feel the silencer holes we drilled into the barrel of
the gun. Most of the noise a gunshot makes is expanding gases, and there's
the tiny sonic boom a bullet makes because it travels so fast. To make a
silencer, you just drill holes in the barrel of the gun, a lot of holes. This
lets the gas escape and slows the bullet to below the speed of sound.
You drill the holes wrong and the gun will blow off your hand.
"This isn't really death," Tyler says. "We'll be legend. We won't grow old."
I tongue the barrel into my cheek and say, Tyler, you're thinking of
vampires.
The building we're standing on won't be here in ten minutes. You take a
98percent concentration of fuming nitric acid and add the acid to three
times that amount of sulfuric acid. Do this in an ice bath. Then add
glycerin drop-by-drop with an eye dropper. You have nitroglycerin.
I know this because Tyler knows this.
Mix the nitro with sawdust, and you have a nice plastic explosive. A lot of
folks mix their nitro with cotton and add Epsom salts as a sulfate. This
works too. Some folks, they use paraffin mixed with nitro. Paraffin has
never, ever worked for me.
So Tyler and I are on top of the Parker-Morris Building with the gun stuck
in my mouth, and we hear glass breaking. Look over the edge. It's a
cloudy day, even this high up. This is the world's tallest building, and this
high up the wind is always cold. It's so quiet this high up, the feeling you
get is that you're one of those space monkeys. You do the little job you're
trained to do.
Pull a lever.
Push a button.
You don't understand any of it, and then you just die.
One hundred and ninety-one floors up, you look over the edge of the roof
and the street below is mottled with a shag carpet of people, standing,
looking up. The breaking glass is a window right below us. A window
blows out the side of the building, and then comes a file cabinet big as a
black refrigerator, right below us a six-drawer filing cabinet drops right
out of the cliff face of the building, and drops turning slowly, and drops
getting smaller, and drops disappearing into the packed crowd.
Somewhere in the one hundred and ninety-one floors under us, the space
monkeys in the Mischief Committee of Project Mayhem are running wild,
destroying every scrap of history.
That old saying, how you always kill the one you love, well, look, it works
both ways.
With a gun stuck in your mouth and the barrel of the gun between your
teeth, you can only talk in vowels.
We're down to our last ten minutes.
Another window blows out of the building, and glass sprays out, sparkling
flock-of-pigeons style, and then a dark wooden desk pushed by the
Mischief Committee emerges inch by inch from the side of the building
until the desk tilts and slides and turns end-over-end into a magic flying
thing lost in the crowd.
The Parker-Morris Building won't be here in nine minutes. You take
enough blasting gelatin and wrap the foundation columns of anything, you
can topple any building in the world. You have to tamp it good and tight
with sandbags so the blast goes against the column and not out into the
parking garage around the column.
This how-to stuff isn't in any history book.
The three ways to make napalm: One, you can mix equal parts of gasoline
and frozen orange juice concentrate. Two, you can mix equal parts of
gasoline and diet cola. Three, you can dissolve crumbled cat litter in
gasoline until the mixture is thick.
Ask me how to make nerve gas. Oh, all those crazy car bombs.
Nine minutes.
The Parker-Morris Building will go over, all one hundred and ninety-one
floors, slow as a tree falling in the forest. Timber. You can topple
anything. It's weird to think the place where we're standing will only be a
point in the sky.
Tyler and meat the edge of the roof, the gun in my mouth, I'm wondering
how clean this gun is.
We just totally forget about Tyler's whole murder-suicide thing while we
watch another file cabinet slip out the side of the building and the drawers
roll open midair, reams of white paper caught in the updraft and carried
off on the wind.
Eight minutes.
Then the smoke, smoke starts out of the broken windows. The demolition
team will hit the primary charge in maybe eight minutes. The primary
charge will blow the base charge, the foundation columns will crumble,
and the photo series of the Parker-Morris Building will go into all the
history books.
The five-picture time-lapse series. Here, the building's standing. Second
picture, the building will be at an eighty-degree angle. Then a seventy-
degree angle. The building's at a forty-five-degree angle in the fourth
picture when the skeleton starts to give and the tower gets a slight arch to
it. The last shot, the tower, all one hundred and ninety-one floors, will
slam down on the national museum which is Tyler's real target.
"This is our world, now, our world," Tyler says, "and those ancient people
are dead."
If I knew how this would all turn out, I'd be more than happy to be dead
and in Heaven right now.
Seven minutes.
Up on top of the Parker-Morris Building with Tyler's gun in my mouth.
While desks and filing cabinets and computers meteor down on the crowd
around the building and smoke funnels up from the broken windows and
three blocks down the street the demolition team watches the clock, I
know all of this: the gun, the anarchy, the explosion is really about Marla
Singer.
Six minutes.
We have sort of a triangle thing going here. I want Tyler. Tyler wants
Marla. Marla wants me.
I don't want Marla, and Tyler doesn't want me around, not anymore. This
isn't about love as in caring. This is about property as in ownership.
Without Marla, Tyler would have nothing.
Five minutes.
Maybe we would become a legend, maybe not. No, I say, but wait.
Where would Jesus be if no one had written the gospels?
Four minutes.
I tongue the gun barrel into my cheek and say, you want to be a legend,
Tyler, man, I'll make you a legend. I've been here from the beginning.
I remember everything.
Three minutes.
Chapter 2
BOB'S BIG ARMS were closed around to hold me inside, and I was
squeezed in the dark between Bob's new sweating tits that hang enormous,
the way we think of God's as big. Going around the church basement full
of men, each night we met: this is Art, this is Paul, this is Bob; Bob's big
shoulders made me think of the horizon. Bob's thick blond hair was what
you get when hair cream calls itself sculpting mousse, so thick and blond
and the part is so straight.
His arms wrapped around me, Bob's hand palms my head against the new
tits sprouted on his barrel chest.
"It will be alright," Bob says. "You cry now."
From my knees to my forehead, I feel chemical reactions within Bob
burning food and oxygen.
"Maybe they got it all early enough," Bob says. "Maybe it's just
seminoma. With seminoma, you have almost a hundred percent survival
rate."
Bob's shoulders inhale themselves up in a long draw, then drop, drop, drop
in jerking sobs. Draw themselves up. Drop, drop, drop.
I've been coming here every week for two years, and every week Bob
wraps his arms around me, and I cry.
"You cry," Bob says and inhales and sob, sob, sobs. "Go on now and cry."
The big wet face settles down on top of my head, and I am lost inside.
This is when I'd cry. Crying is right at hand in the smothering dark, closed
inside someone else, when you see how everything you can ever
accomplish will end up as trash.
Anything you're ever proud of will be thrown away.
And I'm lost inside.
This is as close as I've been to sleeping in almost a week.
This is how I met Marla Singer.
Bob cries because six months ago, his testicles were removed. Then
hormone support therapy. Bob has tits because his testosterone ration is
too high. Raise the testosterone level too much, your body ups the
estrogen to seek a balance.
This is when I'd cry because right now, your life comes down to nothing,
and not even nothing, oblivion.
Too much estrogen, and you get bitch tits.
It's easy to cry when you realize that everyone you love will reject you or
die. On a long enough time line, the survival rate for everyone will drop to
zero.
Bob loves me because he thinks my testicles were removed, too.
Around us in the Trinity Episcopal basement with the thrift store plaid
sofas are maybe twenty men and only one woman, all of them clung
together in pairs, most of them crying. Some pairs lean forward, heads
pressed ear-to-ear, the way wrestlers stand, locked. The man with the only
woman plants his elbows on her shoulders; one elbow on either side of her
head, her head between his hands, and his face crying against her neck.
The woman's face twists off to one side and her hand brings up a cigarette.
I peek out from under the armpit of Big Bob.
"All my life," Bob cries. "Why I do anything, I don't know."
The only woman here at Remaining Men Together, the testicular cancer
support group, this woman smokes her cigarette under the burden of a
stranger, and her eyes come together with mine.
Faker.
Faker.
Faker.
Short matte black hair, big eyes the way they are in Japanese animation,
skim milk thin, buttermilk sallow in her dress with a wallpaper pattern of
dark roses, this woman was also in my tuberculosis support group Friday
night. She was in my melanoma round table Wednesday night. Monday
night she was in my Firm Believers leukemia rap group. The part down
the center of her hair is a crooked lightning bolt of white scalp.
When you look for these support groups, they all have vague upbeat
names. My Thursday evening group for blood parasites, it's called Free
and Clear.
The group I go to for brain parasites is called Above and Beyond.
And Sunday afternoon at Remaining Men Together in the basement of
Trinity Episcopal, this woman is here, again.
Worse than that, I can't cry with her watching.
This should be my favorite part, being held and crying with Big Bob
without hope. We all work so hard all the time. This is the only place I
ever really relax and give up.
This is my vacation.
I went to my first support group two years ago, after I'd gone to my doctor
about my insomnia, again.
Three weeks and I hadn't slept. Three weeks without sleep, and everything
becomes an out-of-body experience. My doctor said, "Insomnia is just the
symptom of something larger. Find out what's actually wrong. Listen to
your body."
I just wanted to sleep. I wanted little blue Amytal Sodium capsules,
200milligram-sized. I wanted red-and-blue Tuinal bullet capsules, lipstick-
red Seconals.
My doctor told me to chew valerian root and get more exercise.
Eventually I'd fall asleep.
The bruised, old fruit way my face had collapsed, you would've thought I
was dead.
My doctor said, if I wanted to see real pain, I should swing by First
Eucharist on a Tuesday night. See the brain parasites. See the degenerative
bone diseases. The organic brain dysfunctions. See the cancer patients
getting by.
So I went.
The first group I went to, there were introductions: this is Alice, this is
Brenda, this is Dover. Everyone smiles with that invisible gun to their
head.
I never give my real name at support groups.
The little skeleton of a woman named Chloe with the seat of her pants
hanging down sad and empty, Chloe tells me the worst thing about her
brain parasites was no one would have sex with her. Here she was, so
close to death that her life insurance policy had paid off with seventy-five
thousand bucks, and all Chloe wanted was to get laid for the last time. Not
intimacy, sex.
What does a guy say? What can you say, I mean.